Previously on
The Good Doctor...
- Hey! Stop!
- Danny!
Just promise me.
- What?
- No opioids.
He asked you not to do that.
He's tachycardic
and hypertensive
because of the pain.
He's going into shock.
- He's not. He's praying.
- He's dying.
Forgive me.
I need to go back to Texas
with my family.
You made an error
in yesterday's craniotomy.
You closed
with only eight sutures.
The size of the wound
required ten.
We need to figure out why.
I've had a stroke.
Yes. A small one.
Dr. Glassman, please tell us
what the next step is.
Somebody
please call security.
Shaun, you are out of line.
- Answer.
- It's, um...
You humiliated me in public
in my operating room
in front of my colleagues.
Do you have any idea
how much that hurt?
I don't know what to do.
You can just leave me alone.
I don't think
you should resign.
Because you don't
have to do it all alone.
You're the reason
I wake up in the morning,
so whatever there is
to figure out,
all I want in the world
is for us to do it as a family.
I wanted to give you
a heads-up as a friend.
I've decided to resign.
Congratulations,
Mom and Dad.
Look at what we made.
Do you think
Dr. Glassman is coming?
This is from Dr. Glassman.
How did he know
his name would be Steve?
Because he knows you.
Gloves.
Start the timer, please.
Good luck, babe. It's a doozy.
♪ They get up every morning
♪ From the alarm clock's
Warning ♪
♪ Take the 8:15 into the city ♪
♪ There's a whistle up above ♪
♪ And people pushing
People shoving ♪
♪ And the girls
Who try to look pretty ♪
♪ And I've been takin' care
Of business, every day ♪
♪ Takin' care of business
Every way ♪
♪ I've been takin' care
Of business, it's all mine ♪
♪ Takin' care of business
And working overtime ♪
Thirty-seven seconds.
Good work.
I think that was
your fastest yet.
Second-fastest.
Fifteen minutes
of independent play
is starting now.
I will log it into my app.
You sure you don't want to
get in a few extra snuggles
before you leave?
Oh, I had ten minutes
of snuggles this morning.
Very nice.
I've also set up the app
on your phone.
It will alert you
when it's time
for Steve's nap,
feeding, playtime...
Just in case I miss
the schedules
posted on the fridge,
the bathroom,
and in our bedroom.
Yes. And I will be able to
track it while I'm at work.
Steve and I
will be fine.
Just enjoy your first day back.
We can finish
reading the latest
Journal of Trauma
and Acute Care Surgery
when I get home.
After this,
Steve should have at least
five minutes of tummy time.
Yesterday, he only logged
12 minutes,
- which is three less than--
- I love you.
Say hi to everyone for me.
Okay. I love you, too.
I will miss you both.
I don't know why you need
three protein powders
for your smoothies.
They do different things.
She's barely taken an ounce.
That's what the protein-powder
companies want you to believe.
Are you holding her right?
Yes.
She needs to be upright with
her head properly supported.
Good.
And you mixed it enough?
The same as always.
She's not interested again.
And she seems lethargic.
I'll take her
to get checked out.
Well, I'd like to come, too.
Sure. You can carry this.
Good morning.
How's Perez today?
Don't know.
It's almost 8:00 a.m.
It's been "today"
for a whole eight hours.
You two haven't
texted each other yet?
We both decided we need space.
He's focused on his recovery.
I've got my life here.
I fully support that.
And your next chapter
begins tonight.
You and me. Drinks, music,
questionable decisions.
You and Jerome finally
got the surgery!
You're no longer
joined at the hip?
Jerome is obsessed
with some docuseries
about one of the many sports
that I don't care about.
Come on. It's been too long.
I've been busy.
You've been...
mopey.
Fine. I agree
to drinks and music,
but I'm definitely a "maybe"
on questionable decisions.
- All right.
We'll work up to it.
- Okay.
We're going out tonight
for drinks,
- starting a new chapter.
- That's right.
We're calling it
"Bad decisions
with good friends."
We're definitely
not calling it that.
Wanna join?
No, thank you.
Papa Murphy, welcome back.
Pictures of Steve.
I was just about to ask.
This way,
I avoid the disruption
of pulling out my phone.
Look at that smile!
Just like his mom!
He was pooping in that one.
Here he is... about to poop.
Hmm. A theme develops.
Aw.
He's got your eyes, Shaun.
I need to find Dr. Lim.
You may keep those.
I made enough for everyone.
Marcus sends greetings
from Spain.
Oh, I thought he was at a
meditation retreat in Vietnam.
He was, and now he's walking
the Camino de Santiago.
How nice for him.
I'm two surgeons down
with no one to approve
hiring a new one.
I need the board to appoint
an interim president, stat.
Just as long as
it's not O'Brien.
They wouldn't.
I heard from a staffer
who covers board meetings
that his name's
on the shortlist.
Ugh. Of the worst possible
candidates for the position.
Good morning!
Pictures of Steve.
Aww.
You no longer have your cane.
Yeah. PT said I was ready.
I'm glad to have you back.
I would like to join your case.
He's adorable, Dr. Murphy.
Welcome back.
Shaun, I'm thrilled to see you,
but I'm not sure this is
the case where you want
to start as a new dad.
It is an exciting
and challenging surgery.
Thank you for coming in
on such short notice.
Hello. I am Dr. Shaun Murphy,
attending surgeon
and father of a baby boy.
He is two weeks old,
and today is my first day back,
but that will not affect
my performance
as your son's doctor.
Is it true there might be
a heart for Jack?
Yes, but the heart
isn't available yet,
and we may not get it
once it is.
We've been through this before.
Why isn't the heart
available yet?
Well, the donor family is still
saying their goodbyes
before they turn off
life support.
Jack is an excellent match
for the donor heart,
and his latest echo indicates
that his cardiomyopathy
and overall cardiac function
has worsened,
so he should be
at the top of the list.
I just want to run
some additional tests
to make sure
he's otherwise healthy.
There is a problem.
There is a small scratch,
likely from his fingernails,
which has developed cellulitis
and an abscess.
If the infection spreads
and he spikes a fever,
Jack will be ineligible
for the transplant.
We have to lance
and debride it right away.
Morning.
Hi.
This is Steve, our son,
who is now two weeks old.
Steve, this is the grumpy man
who lives down the hall
and gave you
your favorite blanket.
Shaun was very impressed
you guessed his first name.
Wanna take a stab
at the middle?
Aaron.
I was lobbying
pretty hard for Bowie,
because why not name your kid
after the coolest person
who ever lived?
But Shaun insisted.
You should come over sometime.
You two both grunt a lot
and make strange faces.
I've got a lot going on, so...
We live next door.
You have nothing going on.
You're mad. And I get it.
But are you really gonna ignore
Shaun and Steve and me forever?
Is that the plan?
I'm not ignoring you.
And he's beautiful.
Congratulations.
I tried.
Any cyanosis while eating?
Maybe a hint of bluishness
on her lips last night.
I haven't noticed anything.
But given her prior surgery
and the Turner syndrome,
I thought we should...
The blood flow is reduced.
It looks like
Eden's aortic stenosis
has progressed more rapidly
than we were expecting.
Can we put her
on beta blockers?
We can try, but given
how dysplastic the valve is,
I don't think
it will do much good.
You'll want to get
more imaging,
but I think Eden's gonna need
another surgery very soon.
Cardiac MRI confirmed
severe narrowing of the valve,
obstruction, and left
ventricular dysfunction.
Eden needs a new aortic valve,
or her heart failure
will get worse.
Are you thinking mechanical
or cryopreserved homograft
for the replacement?
Mechanical valve for a neonate
needs to be built,
and it will require
future surgeries
plus lifetime blood thinners.
Cryopreserved valves risk
degeneration down the line,
but it is a solid idea,
especially as part
of the Ross Procedure.
Possible complications?
Aortic insufficiency,
pulmonary stenosis.
We can take some time,
discuss the different options--
Do the Ross Procedure.
I'll have Asher
get her prepped.
It's time to get off
the sidelines.
I'm not sure
what you're referring to.
Are you gonna throw me a ball?
You've run the hospital before.
You can handle
a few more months.
I can,
but why would I want to?
- That's a no?
- Yes.
Get ready for
Interim President O'Brien.
They would never.
That's like
Mao meets Basil Fawlty.
Wow. That's two obscure
and dated references.
They're never gonna
move on O'Brien.
Well, apparently,
he's on the board's shortlist.
Throw your hat in the ring,
he won't stand a chance.
My hat's
gonna stay on my head,
but I'll handle it.
Okay, Jack.
You know that little bump
behind your ear?
We have to poke it
with something sharp,
which will hurt,
but we have to do it
so hopefully you can get
a new heart.
But Mr. Snugglepuff is here
to keep you company.
Asher said the taco truck
added chorizo to the menu,
and it's bussin'.
The next late night,
we should share an order.
Not really my thing. Thanks.
The sheet papoose is secure.
Good. Dr. Kalu,
cradle the baby.
Dr. Allen, sterilize the area
behind the ear.
Okay, baby, don't look.
His eyes are not yet
able to focus beyond
eight to twelve inches.
The abscess
is pretty deep.
It may take a while to heal.
What about a wound vac?
We don't have one small enough.
It's okay.
Maggots.
How are those better than
just using antibiotics?
Maggots work faster
to clear necrotic debris
on account of
the antimicrobial nature
of their saliva
and other digestive secretions.
It's safe to put those bugs
on my baby?
Larvae.
These are
medical maggots.
They've been
specially disinfected.
It's completely safe.
I would use maggots on my son,
Steve, in this situation.
That is unlikely to happen,
but I hope the parallel
puts you at ease.
Go ahead.
Hmm!
You want some coffee?
Or I have a stash
of protein bars in my office.
I'm fine, thanks.
But if you want something,
go ahead.
What's your family here for?
A heart transplant, hopefully,
for our son, Jack.
How old is he?
Twelve weeks.
Oh. My daughter, Eden,
is 11 weeks.
She's having heart surgery
right now.
Y'all will be in my prayers.
Is this Jack's first surgery?
He's had other procedures,
but this would be his first
open heart surgery.
If it happens.
When it happens, I recommend
Biafine cream for post-op.
It contains a natural compound
called trolamine.
It really helped
with Eden's recovery.
How many surgeries
has your daughter had?
Uh, one. At seven weeks.
Hmm.
Eden and I are old hands.
You're two
very resilient ladies.
I'm Kate Pierce.
This is my husband, Owen.
Morgan Reznick.
Alex Park.
Would you like to...
Yeah! You can do it! Come on.
Oh! There you go!
You got it! You got it!
You got it!
Hi, Daddy. How is it
being back at work?
I just applied maggots
to a baby
a few months older than Steve.
Is that Steve?
He is supposed to be asleep.
Mm. He's doing well
with tummy time.
And you mentioned yesterday
he was behind,
so I thought I'd add
a few extra minutes.
No, no.
Tummy time should not be
extended into his sleep window.
Did you not get the app alert?
You are seven minutes
into nap time.
Nope. I guess I missed it.
Delaying his nap could
make him overtired
or delay his next feeding.
The schedule is very important.
I know, Shaun, I know.
It's just a few extra minutes.
Eight minutes.
That is not a few.
It is several.
Uh, I should go put Steve down.
- Bye-bye.
- Okay.
Oh.
We had to abort the procedure.
Eden has a bicuspid
pulmonary valve.
There wasn't enough tissue
to attach it to the aorta.
And we observed
leaking at the valve.
Her heart is failing
even faster than we thought.
I'm so sorry.
What's our next move?
Oh. The maggots worked!
Baby Jack's infection
has cleared,
and the heart
is on its way here.
Eden has two bad valves
and rapidly progressing
heart failure.
We have one donor heart
and two babies who need it.
It's up to us to decide
which baby gets this heart.
Jack has been waiting
for three months.
A transplant
is his only option.
He could go on a VAD until
another heart is available.
That could take months.
And a VAD isn't a good option
for Jack because of the--
Morgan. Morgan.
You can't be here.
Neither of you.
I can't be anywhere else,
so either someone
should sedate me or...
Well, that can be arranged.
It's only a problem
that Park and I are here
if we influence your decision,
so don't let us.
I won't say a word.
Dr. Kalu?
Yeah, um...
as far as the VAD for Jack,
he's underweight,
so a high risk
of complications,
infections, bleeding, stroke.
It's not a great option
for Eden, either.
Eden can go on ECMO
while we're waiting
for mechanical
replacement valves.
ECMO has risks, especially for
a baby with Turner syndrome.
And the longer she's on it,
the greater the risk
of serious complications.
The valves may not
get here in time.
Care to weigh in, Dr. Murphy?
Jack and Eden
are equally good matches
to the donor heart
based on size and blood type.
Anything else?
It's okay, Shaun.
Without this heart...
Jack will die.
Eden may also die without it.
But she has other options.
They are risky,
but they are options.
Jack should get the heart.
We'll put Eden on ECMO tonight.
And I'll contact Abbott
about getting the
15-millimeter valves ASAP.
Hey. I'm sorry.
Can we rain-check tonight?
I'm exhausted,
and Jerome promised
that we could watch
a nice crime procedural.
Sometimes you need
a case of the week.
Yeah.
Mm-hmm.
Mmm! My favorite!
One cheddar brisket
with mild sauce
so little Steve's next meal
doesn't burn his mouth.
You are a treasure.
I am starving.
- Thank you.
- Mm-hmm.
Poor Eden,
having to go on ECMO.
And poor Morgan and Park.
It's... been a day.
And how are you holding up?
Without Perez?
Everything that happens,
at home or at work,
he's the first person
I want to tell.
Mm-hmm.
And I can't.
Or I shouldn't.
I really miss him.
You can tell me everything.
If it's too surgical,
I may not understand it,
but I am excellent at nodding
and acting interested.
Mm!
I'm here for you. So is Asher.
What's going on?
Tell me.
Babies are terrible at gossip.
Asher and I were supposed
to hang out tonight,
just the two of us.
Do you need to check on him?
No. If he smells me,
I'll never get out of there.
He'll settle back down.
So you and Asher had plans--
He blew me off for Jerome
because he had a hard day
on Eden's case, which I get,
but I had a hard day, too.
Mm-hmm.
Steve's not settling.
Well, he can wait a minute.
You had a hard day, too?
It... It just seems like
everybody has someone except--
- Go.
- I am so sorry.
I-I will be right back.
I swear.
Mm.
You didn't
have to do this, Shaun.
I am more thorough than
anyone else in this hospital.
Starting ECMO.
I just got an e-mail
from Gail on the board.
I'm suddenly a top candidate
for interim president?
You're welcome.
I don't want that job.
It's better...
better you than O'Brien.
You're a good manager,
you're...
you're well-respected,
and, you know,
as a diverse woman...
People aren't diverse.
I'm part of an
underrepresented group.
Right. That.
Makes you an ideal candidate.
Look. Gail loved the idea.
- I hate you.
- You're welcome.
Shh, shh, shh. Shh, shh, shh.
I am glad
to see you, Steve,
but you are not
supposed to be awake.
Yeah, I-I fell asleep
during his afternoon nap.
We didn't wake up until 4:30.
You need to set an alarm.
The schedule is very important.
I know. I know.
Tomorrow I am doing
a heart transplant
on a 12-week-old baby.
Okay. You need sleep.
Yes, I do.
Go to bed.
I'll handle Steve tonight.
I-I don't think I can.
Shh, it's okay. What about your
noise-canceling headphones?
I fall asleep on my side.
I cannot do that in those.
Maybe you could go spend
the night at Glassman's?
No.
What about your office?
Can you sleep there?
We can save them both
with one heart.
It's called
a domino transplant.
Jack's heart is failing,
but his valves are healthy,
so when Jack receives
the donor heart,
we will use his valves to
replace Eden's damaged ones.
A fresh homograft donor
means Eden won't need
multiple surgeries
or blood thinners.
One heart could save
both babies.
What are the chances
of valve failure?
Minimal. Jack's valves
are very functional
despite his cardiomyopathy.
The odds of success are high.
It's the best option we have...
for Eden.
And for Jack?
We would
have to be very careful
while removing his heart
so as not to damage his valves.
That would mean
more time on bypass,
which means a greater risk
of bleeding or infection.
It's a lot to ask.
They can always say no.
What would you say?
You haven't eaten anything
in 24 hours.
I'm fine.
No matter what they decide,
we'll get through this.
Don't.
What, try to help?
Yes, exactly.
It's pointless and annoying.
You know, I get that you don't
think of Eden as mine yet,
and that's why you
haven't included me
in any of her
medical decisions.
Not that I need that,
or disagree
with any of your choices--
Is pissing me off another
attempt to distract me?
I'm not trying to pick a fight.
I just want you to know
that I love that girl
like she's my own, and...
I'm as scared as you are.
And I wish you'd let me
help you because...
we're in this together.
That's it.
And I really don't
want you to pass out,
so please eat
or drink something.
If our baby
can save your baby's life,
we'd be honored.
"I'll love you forever,
I'll like you for always.
"As long as I'm living,
my baby you'll be."
Oh, my God. What a tear-jerker.
We need to find one of
Daddy's medical journals.
Reminder.
Nap time in five minutes.
How do I un-sync the baby app
from our speaker?
Oh, no. You should not do that.
I set it up so you can
remember the schedule.
When it's just me and Steve
home during the day,
I like to be
a little bit more... flexible,
go with the flow.
I'll just...
I'll just unplug it.
It has a battery
in case of power outages.
Lea, when I'm at work,
I like knowing what
you and Steve are doing.
It makes me feel like I am
still a part of his day.
And when Steve gets off
his sleep schedule,
I have to go sleep
at the hospital,
and I miss you both even more.
Aw, we missed you, too.
How did you sleep?
Not well. But I came up
with a very good idea
to save both babies.
I have to go prep
for my surgery now.
I love you.
Dr. Lim, we have
a meeting to review--
One minute, Shaun.
Gail, of course,
diversity and representation
should be considered,
but given this is
an interim position,
I think the top priority
is finding someone
who can hit the ground running
from day one.
And that means someone
who's done it before.
He's too modest
to sing his own praises,
but I think
he's the obvious choice.
Hmm. Compelling argument.
Thank you.
Oh.
And seniors are also
an underrepresented group.
Dr. Murphy and I
will start with Jack in OR 1.
Asher, you'll be with Eden
next door getting her ready.
Allen and Kalu, you two
will receive the donor heart
and prep it for transplant.
Then Dr. Lim and I
will put Jack on bypass
and start cooling him
to 25 degrees.
Given his age and underlying
medical condition,
he should not be on bypass
for longer than two hours.
Putting in Jack's new heart
will take about 90 minutes.
That leaves us half an hour
to remove the old one.
While Shaun is transplanting
the new heart,
I will be excising
Jack's valves.
We have zero room for error.
Prep your patients.
Exciting case.
Yep.
We're saving
two babies at once,
and your commentary is "yep"?
I was agreeing with you.
With as few words as possible,
which you've been doing
for the last two weeks.
If you have a problem with me,
just tell me.
Okay.
Okay. I have a problem with you
and how you handled
Perez's case.
- That's completely stupid.
- You just said
I should tell you.
I didn't say
I would agree with you.
You overrode
our patient's wishes,
and Perez is gone
because of it.
Perez is alive because of it.
You don't know what
would have happened
if you'd listened to him.
You made the decision
you thought was best.
Didn't matter
what anyone else wanted.
I'm sorry,
but you don't get to do that
and not deal
with the consequences.
The consequences?
I lost someone
I care about a lot,
and I miss him every day.
I'm really trying hard to focus
on the good things in my life,
the job I love,
the friends I thought I had...
But it feels like
everyone is moving on,
and I'm just alone.
Spare yourself the burden
of punishing me.
Get her prepped,
draped, and under anesthesia.
I'll see you in 30 minutes, hopefully.
I had an extra set.
You don't have to be Catholic.
They can just be a reminder
that you're not alone.
Thank you.
There is
a lot of scar tissue
to dissect through.
The cardiomyopathy has caused
Jack's heart to enlarge
and adhere to his chest wall.
This will take
longer than planned
in order to
preserve the valves.
We inspected
the mitral valve.
The atrial septum is intact.
The heart looks good.
Dr. Allen,
connect the pulmonary veins
to prep the left atrial cuff.
Dr. Kalu, you're with us.
Okay. Increase flows
and cool to 25 degrees.
Start the clock.
Come on, Peanut.
We went with the flow,
but now it's nap time.
Come on. Settle.
Oh.
Ohh! We were so close, Peanut.
I need to transect
the aorta,
but there are thick adhesions
where it meets the valve.
You now only have
an hour and 14 minutes
to put the new heart in.
The annulus
is at the tip of my dissection.
If I nick that,
the aortic valve is useless.
- Anterior retraction.
- We're running
out of time.
Jack's transplant
is at serious risk.
Metz.
Dr. Murphy, you need to
abort this procedure.
Shaun, ECMO is still
an option for Eden.
- You need to abort--
- Got it!
The valves are good.
Ready for the donor heart.
- How is she?
- Ready to go.
Vitals are great.
Open her chest
and start her on bypass
while I recover the valves.
Scalpel.
How do the valves look?
A little bigger than
we measured on imaging.
Makes the anastomosis challenging.
But it can still work?
It has to.
Hmm.
Feeding time starting
in five minutes.
Shh.
It's not
seating perfectly.
Let's try
a purse string suture.
7-0 Prolene.
Got it. Saline.
There's a paravalvular leak
at the aortic.
How about
pledgeted sutures?
In an infant this small,
that could cause stenosis.
We try again.
7-0 Prolene.
It's been almost
two and a half hours.
We need to get him off bypass.
The aortic anastomosis
is complete.
Unclamp the aorta
and start rewarming.
Now what?
We wait... and hope
his heart starts beating.
It's been almost three hours.
Do you think something's wrong?
The sutures
are holding.
Now the little thing
just has to beat.
Start warming her up.
Decrease the flows.
We need to shock him.
Clear!
Again.
The surgeries were successful.
Both your babies
are doing very well,
and you can see them soon.
Thank you.
You saved our daughter.
You are welcome.
I miss my baby.
I'm going home now.
All right. Let me just
jump in the shower.
And then I'm good to go.
Go home to your man.
It's okay.
Bless you.
- Tomorrow?
- Mm-hmm.
You're right.
This chorizo is...
What'd you call it?
Bussin'.
Right.
Definitely bussin'.
I thought we could
share an order.
Tell me you didn't forget
the hot sauce.
- Hello.
- Hmm...
Why is Steve awake?
You look terrible.
Thank you.
Steve has been fed,
burped, changed,
and woken
from his haphazard nap
by a speaker reminder.
How's Eden?
Very good.
And Jack's transplant
was successful.
Mm.
Parenting can be very hard.
Mm-hmm.
Yeah. I've noticed.
There are many hard choices
about what works best.
People want different things.
I will try to...
make room for your way.
The schedule is important,
but I will un-sync the app
from the speaker.
I put it out
on the fire escape.
Thank you.
I really appreciate it.
But the only room I need
right now is the bedroom.
- Okay.
- Good night.
I'm borrowing your
noise-canceling headphones.
I love you both.
Are you kidding me?
You recommended me?
I was just following
your example.
See? You're a natural leader.
I'm old.
I'm worn out and I'm old.
- You're wise.
- I remember rotary phones.
You're vital.
You're experienced.
You're the most
respected doctor
in this hospital.
Aaron, you have
institutional knowledge
and a... and a natural,
unexplainable gravitas.
Will you please stop being
an idiot and just take the job?
Stop being selfish
and stubborn.
How am I being selfish? I'm...
Oh, you're together.
That saves me a stop.
Your recommendations
presented the board
with a very difficult choice.
So we didn't...
choose.
You two are the new
interim co-presidents
of St. Bonaventure Hospital.
Congratulations!
This is not the schedule, Steve.
Mommy needs to sleep.
Daddy needs to sleep.
You need to sleep.
Please?
Please. We are both very tired.
Hey.
I don't know what to do.
I can't go inside
because Lea needs to sleep.
I've always been able
to get him down before.
Sometimes babies
just need to cry.
Hey. Um...
why don't I take him?
Get some sleep.
It's okay. Just get some rest.
I will just take a short nap.
Take as long as you need.
Hey.
Hey. I got you. Hey.
Hey. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey.
I got you.
Huh. I got you.
I'm Grandpa...
in case you were wondering.